---
layout: single
title:  "LeetCode Problem Solving #3"
categories: [algorithms, problem]
excerpt: "Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock I - II - III - IV"
---
<!---
MediumSeaGreen - Easy
Orange - Medium
Tomato - Hard
-->
This is a very common question with a lot of versions. I had this kind of questions in different interviews. I thought that it would be nice to analyze the "Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock" series of Leetcode. Let's start with the first one.

#### 1. [Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/) <span style="color:MediumSeaGreen">(Easy) </span>

Say you have an array for which the ith element is the price of a given stock on day i.

If you were only permitted to complete at most one transaction (i.e., buy one and sell one share of the stock), design an algorithm to find the maximum profit.

Note that you cannot sell a stock before you buy one.

**Example 1:**
```
Input: [7,1,5,3,6,4]
Output: 5
Explanation: Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.  
Not 7-1 = 6, as selling price needs to be larger than buying price.
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: [7,6,4,3,1]
Output: 0
Explanation: In this case, no transaction is done, i.e. max profit = 0.
```

**Solution**

* If we had infinite number of transaction we would want to get advantage of every possible profitable transaction. However we are only permitted to complete one transaction. So, we need to find the best possible transaction times to buy and sell.

* A really dumb way of doing this might be checking every possible couple of days for a transaction and take the one with the highest profit. It would take O(n^2) time complexity which is not quite nice.

* Since we need to buy the stock before selling it, we might assume that we bought it on the first day and start traversing the array from the start. If we see a higher value than our buying price, we check the possible profit byabstracting the buying price from the current one. We can store the maximum profit in a variable and update it whenever we see a higher profit. 

* Also when we see a lower price than our buying price, we can update the buying price. Since we saw a lower price, for the next values it is safe for us to assume that we will be buying on this current day.

**Final Implementation:**

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        if len(prices) <= 1:
            return 0
        
        mx = 0
        start = prices[0]
        
        for i in range(1,len(prices)):
            if prices[i] > start:
                val = prices[i] - start
                if val > mx:
                    mx = val
            elif prices[i] < start:
                start = prices[i]
        
        return mx
```

Complexity Analysis  
Time-complexity: O(n)  
Space-complexity: O(1)


